# Jonathan Jansson's Praat Scripts

This is a collection of a few [Praat](http://praat.org) scripts I originally wrote and used for my bachelor's thesis in phonetics. As such, they were written with that specific use case in mind, although I've tried to make them useful (or at least use*able*) in a wider context. While I believe these to be safe and well grounded methods, please double-check all results yourself before using them. Below are short descriptions for each scrips. More can be learned by reading through the comments in each of the script files -- but if you still don't know what they're doing (or why), please let me know.

## SweDia 2000 scripts

The following scripts were written for correcting, extracting and conducting measurements on the word accents of Swedish in recordings from the [SweDia 2000 database](https://swedia.ling.gu.se/) (see Eriksson [2004](https://gupea.ub.gu.se/bitstream/handle/2077/23896/gupea_2077_23896_1.pdf?sequence=1) for a summary). 

*fixTextGrids* corrects a common -- but predictable -- error in the annotation text grids of the SweDia prosody files, where the annotation meant for one interval has somehow ended up in the following interval instead. If a possible error is encountered, an editor window of the text grid and the associated .wav file is opened with the detected interval highlighted. The user is then given a range of options on if and how to perform an automatic correction.

*batchExtract* searches for a set of words present in the SweDia prosody material and, depending on if the match found has word accent 1 or 2, either extracts that word alone (accent 2) or extracts the matched word as well as the preceding word (accent 1), from both the text grid and it's matching .wav file. Presence of focus accent is determined based on the annotation. This script currently uses a .csv file provided with the SweDia research database to only extract from recordings of speakers of type 2-dialects but this could easily be bypassed.

*stylFallFinder*, finally, uses a text grid containing syllable segmentation (following the format of the one automatially generated by the Prosogram F0 stylization model) and another text containing orthographic word-level transcriptions to identify the interval of a recording in which a word accent fall is likely to occur. The fall is then identified and measured in the associated pitch tier file (as this is how Prosogram outputs it's stylizations). Depending on whether the identified word has word accent 1 or 2 (the latter of which is hard-coded based on words present in the SweDia material), different methods for identification are used. The script as it is written is only accurate for type 2A dialects following the Gårding dialect typology, but could easily be modified to fit other dialect types or measure other intonational phenomena.
